warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Total pages: 27

=== PAGE 1 ===
Fast and scalable sliding-window-based algorithms for mining 
frequent weighted utility patterns over dynamic quantitative 
data streams
Nguyen Le a
, Ham Nguyen b,*, Minh Nguyen c
, Huong Bui a
, Bay Vo a
, 
Unil Yun d
a Faculty of Information Technology, HUTECH University, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
b Faculty of Information Science, Saigon University, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
c Faculty of Mathematics, Mechanics, and Informatics, VNU University of Science, Hanoi, Viet Nam
d Department of Computer Engineering, Sejong University, Seoul, the Republic of Korea
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Dynamic data streams
Frequent weighted utility pattern
Sliding-window model
A B S T R A C T
Frequent weighted utility pattern (FWUP) mining represents a significant extension within the 
domain of frequent pattern mining that aims to identify frequently occurring and significant 
patterns in quantitative databases. In today’s world, streams of data are constantly being 
generated rapidly, requiring appropriate mining methods to swiftly discover useful information 
from them. Previous algorithms for mining FWUPs were conceived for databases characterized by 
a predetermined quantity of transactions and are not amenable to direct application on dynamic 
data streams. Therefore, this study introduces the problem of mining FWUPs over dynamic 
quantitative data streams based on the sliding-window model. We propose two algorithms, 
named FWUDS-CT and FWUDS-DWT, to address this problem efficiently by reusing knowledge 
from previous windows without reprocessing the entire data. Furthermore, we also develop 
methods to perform real-time data updates. Empirical results show that our proposed method 
achieves superior performance in execution time and scalability compared to prior approaches for 
mining FWUPs over data streams.
1. Introduction
The frequent pattern (FP) mining challenge was initially presented by Agrawal and colleagues [1], becoming an essential problem 
in data mining. The task of FP mining is to identify all patterns whose occurrence frequency meets or exceeds a user-specified threshold 
on a binary transaction database. However, FP mining has a limitation when applied to real applications, which is that it only focuses 
on the frequency and occurrence of patterns and ignores other important information. Consequently, the problem of pattern mining 
has expanded in various directions, such as high utility patterns (HUPs) [2,3], high average utility patterns (HAUPs) [4], sequential 
patterns [5],… A recent research direction of interest is mining frequent weighted utility patterns (FWUPs). FWUP mining focuses on 
both the frequency and the significance of patterns in quantitative databases. Various approaches have been developed to address this 
* Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: lhb.nguyen@hutech.edu.vn (N. Le), ndham@sgu.edu.vn (H. Nguyen), minhnth@hus.edu.vn (M. Nguyen), bd.huong@hutech. 
edu.vn (H. Bui), vd.bay@hutech.edu.vn (B. Vo), yunei@sejong.ac.kr (U. Yun). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Information Sciences
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ins
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2026.123488
Received 10 October 2024; Received in revised form 6 April 2026; Accepted 7 April 2026  
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
Available online 8 April 2026 
0020-0255/© 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 


=== PAGE 2 ===
problem, including MBiS [6], WUN-Miner [7], FWUP-SWUNL [8] for static databases, and dFWUT [9] and dFWUNL [9] for dynamic 
databases.
In recent years, the rapid advancement of information technology has led to a massive increase in the volume of data. Humans or 
machines often generate these data in the form of data streams, and they are collected using sales data, social networks, and system 
logs. Extracting useful information from data streams under time and memory constraints has become a need and challenge in data 
mining. Mining FWUP in dynamic data streams is crucial for large-scale data processing systems, where information is perpetually 
evolving and necessitates immediate analysis of both occurrence frequency and the value contribution of data elements. Within the e- 
commerce sector, FWUP facilitates the identification of product combinations that are frequently purchased together and yield sub­
stantial profits, thereby aiding in the development of dynamic recommender systems, enhancing personalized promotional strategies, 
and enabling real-time inventory management. In the field of social media analysis, FWUP contributes to the recognition of topics, 
content, or hashtags that not only have a notable degree of popularity but also possess significant influence, thereby effectively 
meeting the aims of trend identification, brand health evaluation, and misinformation detection. Furthermore, in the financial and 
banking industry, FWUP plays a vital role in monitoring and identifying prevalent transaction patterns associated with high monetary 
value or elevated risk levels, thereby enhancing the efficacy of fraud detection and risk management systems. The ability to mine 
FWUP swiftly in real-time and adapt to fluctuations in data and weights is a challenge that traditional pattern mining methods struggle 
to address.
Applying traditional FWUP mining methods on data streams is not suitable due to the data's nature and limitations. It is also due to 
the inability to use past computational results to optimize the mining process. Furthermore, real-world applications generate extensive 
amounts of data quickly, requiring the mining process to be performed at high speed in a single database scan. The sliding window 
model is frequently employed for extracting patterns from continuous data streams [4,10,11]. This model includes a window with a 
fixed number of the most recent data panes. As a new pane is added, the oldest pane is removed. Therefore, the sliding window model 
always ensures that the newest data is mined since often recent data provides the most value. Furthermore, pattern mining based on 
this sliding window approach requires a smaller memory footprint compared to other methods because it does not have to process and 
store the entire database. Several algorithms have been proposed for discovering HUPs [10,12], erasable patterns (EPs) [13], and other 
relevant constructs within data streams employing the sliding window methodology. Yet, it is currently needed to apply this to FWUP 
mining.
With the above motivations, this paper introduces the problem of mining FWUPs over dynamic quantitative data streams using the 
sliding window model, where item weights may change. Our main goal is to design efficient, single-pass algorithms that can effectively 
manage and mine these patterns, accounting for time-varying item weights, without needing to rescan the entire data window.
To achieve this objective, the primary contributions of this work are outlined below: (1) This study provides a formal conceptu­
alization and framework for mining FWUPs over dynamic quantitative data streams, grounded in the sliding window paradigm. (2) We 
propose two new data structures, CTset (Circular Tidset) and DSWUN-tree (Dynamic Streaming Weighted Utility Node tree), for 
efficient data storage and processing for data streams managed under the sliding window model. The distinctive feature of CTset lies in 
its circular tidset management mechanism, which enables the reuse of the transaction identifier domain while preserving the logical 
uniqueness of transactions within the sliding window. This design effectively prevents numerical overflow and reduces storage 
overhead. Meanwhile, the DSWUN-tree structure provides a compact representation of all information within the sliding window and 
supports dynamic updates as new data arrive, eliminating the need for database rescans. From this, we can leverage the superiority of 
the WUN-list data structure to speed up the mining process. (3) We develop two mining algorithms for FWUPs over data streams using 
the sliding window model, named FWUDS-CT (Frequent Weighted Utility pattern mining over Data Streams using Circular Tidset) and 
FWUDS-DWT (Frequent Weighted Utility pattern mining over Data Streams using DSWUN-tree), which utilize the data structures 
mentioned above. (4) We conduct experiments to compare these two methods' runtime and memory usage on various datasets. The 
empirical findings indicate that both algorithms ensure reliability and correctness, with the FWUDS-DWT algorithm working more 
efficiently than FWUDS-CT.
Here is how the paper is structured. Section 2 reviews related work. Section 3 formulates the problem of mining FWUPs using a 
sliding window model on dynamic quantitative data streams. The section also covers basic concepts and knowledge of mining FWUPs. 
Next, the two algorithms FWUDS-CT and FWUDS-DWT for mining FWUPs over data streams are presented and described in detail in 
sections 4 and 5. Empirical evaluations and findings are reported in Section 6, and section 7 provides the complexity analysis and in- 
depth discussion about the proposed methods. Finally, the conclusion and prospective research avenues are discussed in Section 8.
2. Related work
2.1. Mining patterns on quantitative databases
Quantitative databases frequently emerge in retail industry databases. In a quantitative database, each transaction records the 
quantity of products purchased, and each product has a varying weight. This weight could be the price, profit, or the importance of the 
product within the database. Two methodologies have been advanced to extract significant insights from quantitative databases. They 
are high utility pattern mining and frequent weighted utility pattern mining.
2.1.1. Mining high-utility patterns
High utility pattern mining involves identifying all patterns with utility values that meet or exceed a predetermined minimum 
utility threshold specified by the user. This approach addresses the limitation of traditional FP mining, which is ignoring items that 
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
2 


=== PAGE 3 ===
bring great benefits but have low occurrence frequency. In HUP mining, the main challenge arises because the search space is typically 
combinatorically large when the anti-monotonicity property does not work, as the utility values generally increase with pattern length. 
To solve this problem, Liu et al. [14] introduced the Two-Phase algorithm. It uses the principle of Transaction-weighted Utilization as 
an upper bound satisfying the downward closure property. The Two-Phase algorithm is fundamentally derived from the Apriori 
methodology, so it has the limitation of scanning the database many times and generating many candidates. Next, the UP-Growth [15]
and UP-Growth+ [16], inspired by FP-Growth, incorporate several pruning strategies to improve computational efficiency during 
mining. Later, Liu and Qu [17] proposed the HUI-Miner algorithm, which employs a novel utility list data structure to mine HUPs. HUI- 
Miner only needs a single database scan to gather and store necessary information in the utility list. This structure enables rapid 
calculation of utility values. The FHM algorithm [18] proposed by Fournier-Viger et al. uses Estimated Utility Co-occurrence Pruning 
to quickly remove unpromising itemsets, thereby reducing the number of join operations. Next, Zida et al. [19] developed the EFIM 
algorithm and introduced two upper bounds: local utility and sub-tree utility. EFIM uses database projection and transaction merging 
techniques to minimize scanning overhead and improve HUP mining efficiency. Recently, researchers proposed many new HUP 
mining algorithms focusing on optimizing the utility-list-based representations. The HMiner algorithm [20] uses the new compact 
utility list data structure and the virtual hyperlink data structure. The HUI-Miner* algorithm employs the utility-list* structure [21]. 
The FOTH algorithm utilizes the novel IndexSet structure [22]. These algorithms demonstrated their efficiency in mining time and 
memory resources when applied to both dense and sparse datasets. Furthermore, researchers have extended HUP mining to variety 
other data mining tasks, such as HAUP mining [4], high utility sequential pattern mining (HUSP) [23], and skyline pattern mining 
[24].
2.1.2. Mining FWUPs
In the retail industry, FP mining delivers information about frequently purchased products, while HUP mining provides insights 
into the most profitable products. However, in practice, companies also aim to identify products that both bring high value and sell 
well to bolster their business strategies. To tackle this challenge, Khan et al. introduced a novel research direction known as weighted 
utility association rules mining [25]. The proposed approach comprises two phases: the first phase finds FWUPs, and the second phase 
generates rules from these patterns. To accomplish this, the authors proposed two new metrics: transaction weighted utility (twu) along 
with weighted utility support (wus). These metrics integrate both frequency and significance and notably utilize the downward closure 
property, which simplifies the process of pruning the search space. Subsequently, Vo et al. [26] introduced the MWIT-tree structure, 
which employs a tidset structure and achieves the mining of FWUPs with just a single database scan. Next, Nguyen et al. [6] developed 
the MBiS structure to enhance tidset storage optimization and improve the efficiency of mining. The MBiS structure stores information 
of consecutive sub-segments in tidsets to optimize memory usage, and the authors also introduced an efficient method for constructing 
new MBiS structures. Following that, Bui et al. [7] presented the WUN-set structure and its corresponding WUN-Miner algorithm. More 
recently, Nguyen et al. [8] introduced the FWUP-SWUNL algorithm based on the SWUN-list structure, and proposed several theorems 
to accelerate the mining process. Both the WUN-set and SWUN-list originate from the WUN-tree, however, the SWUN-list provides 
superior data compression, thereby reducing both execution time and memory footprint. Experimental findings suggest that the 
FWUP-SWUNL algorithm is currently the most efficient algorithm for mining FWUPs. Additionally, Tran et al. [27] utilized FWUP for 
text clustering, achieving higher accuracy than methods based on frequent patterns. Meanwhile, Nguyen et al. [28] developed the 
MINE_FWUIS and FAST_MINE_FWUIS algorithms, designed for mining FWUPs in hierarchical quantitative databases that organize 
items in a hierarchical structure, indicating interrelated item categories through a generalization relationship.
The aforementioned studies on FWUP mining have concentrated on static quantitative databases, in which the weights of items are 
constant. However, in practical scenarios, the significance of each product can fluctuate due to various factors, including discount 
strategies, item liquidation, and shifts in consumer behavior. Consequently, it is necessary to adjust the weight of each product 
appropriately. Nguyen et al. [9] addressed this challenge by mining FWUPs from dynamic quantitative databases (dDQB), where item 
weights may vary over time. Such dQDB are commonly encountered in practical applications. The weight of each data item could 
signify profit, price, or other benefits of products, and these values can change with each transaction. For instance, an item’s price may 
alter depending on the quantity bought (such as receiving a discount for bulk purchases) or vary seasonally (like different pricing for 
cooling appliances in summer versus winter). This leads to the highly practical problem of mining FPs from dQDB with changing 
weights. The authors proposed two algorithms based on baseline structures: the dFWUT algorithm, which uses a tidset structure, and 
the dFWUNL algorithm, which utilizes the WUNList structure, an extension of the N-List structure [29]. Experimental evaluations on 
both sparse and dense datasets have demonstrated that the dFWUNL algorithm is more efficient than the dFWUT algorithm.
2.2. Mining patterns over data streams
Data streams are characterized by their potentially infinite length, massive and continuous flow, unbounded nature, temporal 
ordering, and fast-changing features. Traditional pattern mining methods are not feasible for data streams because storing and pro­
cessing the entire data stream requires substantial storage and computational capacity. Numerous studies have been conducted on 
pattern mining in data streams, concentrating on three primary models: the landmark model [30,31], the damped window model 
[32,33] and the sliding window model [4,13,34]. Each model has its own advantages and disadvantages, and selecting a mining model 
depends on the inherent attributes of the data as well as the specific needs of the user. In the landmark model, data from a specific 
starting point, known as a landmark, to the current time is considered (Fig. 1(a)). This landmark can be fixed, changeable, or resettable 
throughout the mining process. A key characteristic of this model is that all transactions within this time frame are equally important, 
rendering it appropriate for contexts in which both new and old data hold equal significance. Unlike the landmark model, the damped 
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
3 


=== PAGE 4 ===
window model weights transactions according to their chronological order in the data stream (Fig. 1(b)). In this model, older 
transactions diminish in impact; therefore, their significance and weight decrease with each new data addition. Users define a decay 
factor, which ranges from 0 to 1, to dictate this decrease. Each time a new transaction is added, the weights of previous transactions are 
multiplicatively reduced by this decay factor over time. While the damped window model emphasizes the differences between 
transactions, it demands considerable resources to maintain and manage the entire dataset. The sliding window mechanism is another 
popular approach in data stream pattern mining. In this model, the data stream is segmented into equal-sized data panes. A window, 
which is fixed in size and contains multiple panes retains only the most contemporaneous data. As new data panes enter, the oldest 
pane is discarded to keep the window size constant (Fig. 1(c)). Pattern mining is then conducted on this refreshed window. The sliding 
window model facilitates quick extraction of useful information from the latest data, although selecting the optimal pane and window 
sizes poses challenges for users.
Pattern mining algorithms for data streams have been extensively researched and applied to various types, including FPs [35,36], 
HUPs [10,33,37], EPs [13,32], among others, achieving notable success. Generally, these algorithms focus on solving the following 
main problems. Firstly, the algorithms are designed to minimize data scanning to just one pass, given the large volume and rapid influx 
of data streams. Secondly, new data structures have been developed to efficiently store, manage, update, and discover patterns when 
new data arrives. Thirdly, the algorithms are crafted to ensure reliability, accuracy, and efficient use of resources. However, as of now, 
there is no existing research on mining FWUPs in data streams.
A critical analysis of prior literature, summarized in Table 1, reveals several significant research gaps that motivate our proposed 
approach. Most existing high-performance FWUP mining algorithms [7,8] are fundamentally designed for static databases. Their 
reliance on full data access and the assumption of fixed datasets render them unsuitable for the transient, high-velocity nature of data 
streams. Furthermore, even the most relevant state-of-the-art (SOTA) dynamic algorithm, dFWUNL [9], which is highly effective for 
quantitative databases, wherein the weights assigned to items may vary, suffers from a major inefficiency. It was not designed for the 
sliding window model and requires two complete scans of the current window. This repeated re-scanning is computationally pro­
hibitive for real-time, single-pass stream processing. Concurrently, while the field of stream mining has produced numerous pattern 
mining algorithms, these methods do not address our specific problem. They are not designed to handle the combined challenges of 
FWUPs, quantitative databases, and dynamically varying item weights. Therefore, a clear research gap exists for an efficient frame­
work that can reuse previously computed information, rapidly update data in real time as the window slides, and extract all FWUPs 
from dynamic quantitative data streams, precisely the challenge that our proposed methods aim to address.
Fig. 1. The types of models for pattern mining over data streams.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
4 


=== PAGE 5 ===
3. Preliminaries
3.1. Problem definition
Let I = {ij}n
j=1 be the set of items. A set X ⊆I is called a pattern (or itemset), and a k-pattern if X contains exactly k items. 
Definition 1.
A transaction tk in dQDB (referred to as a dynamic quantitative transaction) includes a set tk = {xij}n
j=1, where xij is the 
number of units bought of item ij ∈I in transaction tk and is associated with a collection of weights of the items dwi = {wj}n
j=1. Each 
transaction is assigned a distinct identifier referred to as Tid.
In a dQDB, an item’s weight can be adjusted at any time based on its significance. Consequently, the weights are organized into 
several batches {dwj}p
j=1, with each batch encompassing one or more sequential transactions. 
Definition 2.
A dynamic quantitative data stream DS =
{
tj
}m
j=1 is a chronological list of dynamic quantitative transactions. DS does 
not limit the number of transactions, so transactions tm+1, tm+2, … can be added after transaction tm.
In the sliding window model, the values for window size and pane size are predetermined, where each pane holds a fixed number of 
transactions, and a window consists of multiple panes. Let |P| represent the number of transactions in a pane and |W| represent the 
number of transactions in a window. If w is the window size, |W| = |P|*w. A data stream (DS) is divided into multiple panes, repre­
sented as DS = [P1,P2,...,Pl). To update the window, the oldest pane is removed and replaced with data from a new pane. This cycle 
continues until no additional data can be incorporated. 
Example 1.
Fig. 2 illustrates the sliding window model for a dynamic quantitative data stream DSe, where both the window size and pane size 
are set at 2. DSe has a total of six transactions {tj}6
j=1 and five items {A, B, C, D, E} divided into two windows {W1, W2}. Each window includes 
two panes, and each pane contains two transactions. The weight of the items across the transactions is detailed in Table 2. The weights of items 
in transactions t1, t2, t3 is dw1 = {0.2, 0.4, 0.2, 0.4, 0.5}, and the weights of items in transactions t4, t5, t6 is dw2 = {0.5,0.3,0.4,0.6,0.6}.
Table 1 
An examination of algorithms pertaining to pattern mining.
Algorithm (Year)
Author
Data structure
Patterns
Databases
Apriori (1994)
Agrawal et al.
None
FPs
Binary transactions (BT)
Eclat (1997)
Zaki et al.
Tidset
FPs
BT
FP-Growth (2000)
Han et al.
FP-tree
FPs
BT
Two-Phase (2005)
Liu et al.
None
HUPs
Quantitative transactions (QT)
MFI-TransSW (2009)
Li et al.
Bit sequence
FPs
Binary data streams
UP-Growth (2010)
Tseng et al.
UP-tree
HUPs
QT
PrePost (2012)
Deng et al.
N-list
FPs
BT
HUI-Miner (2012)
Liu et al.
Utility-list
HUPs
QT
MBiS-FWUI (2015)
Nguyen et al.
MBiS
FWUPs
QT
SHU-Growth (2016)
Ryang et al.
SHU-Tree
HUPs
Quantitative data streams
WUN-Miner (2016)
Bui et al.
WUN-set
FWUPs
QT
EFIM (2017)
Zida et al.
None
HUPs
QT
MAHUSP (2017)
Zihayat et al.
MAS-Tree
HUSPs
Sequences data streams
MPM (2018)
Yun et al.
DAT, TUL
HAUPs
Quantitative data streams
ILDHUP (2020)
Nam et al.
DUI list
HUPs
Quantitative data streams
MED (2020)
Baek et al.
MED-Tree
EPs
Product data streams
FWUP-SWUNL (2023)
Nguyen et al.
SWUN-list
FWUPs
QT
HUPM_Stream (2023)
Han et al.
Ext-list
HUPs
Quantitative data streams
dFWUT (2023)
Nguyen et al.
Tidset
FWUPs
Dynamic QT
dFWUNL (2023)
Nguyen et al.
WUNList
FWUPs
Dynamic QT
FOTH (2024)
Yan et al.
IndexSet
HUPs
QT
DEPL (2024)
Kim et al.
dei-lists
EPs
Product data streams
Fig. 2. An example of dynamic quantitative stream data (DSe).
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
5 


=== PAGE 6 ===
Definition 3.
[9] The transaction weighted utility (twu) of a transaction tk, according to a specific set of weights, dwp, is calculated as 
follows: 
twu(tk) =
∑
ij∈tkwpij × xkij
|tk|
,
(1) 
where wpij ∈dwp is the weight of ij (ij ∈tk), xkij is the quantity of ij, and |tk| denotes the cardinality of tk. 
Example 2.
All twu values in DSe are calculated as shown in Table 3.
Definition 4.
Let sumtwu(Wi) = ∑
tk∈Witwu(tk) be the sum of the twu values of the transactions in the window Wi. The weighted utility 
support (wus) of a pattern X in the i-th sliding window Wi is determined as follows: 
wus(X, Wi) =
∑
tk∈t(X,Wi)twu(tk)
sumtwu(Wi)
,
(2) 
where t(X, Wi) denotes the collection of transactions in the window Wi which contains the pattern X. 
Example 3.
The wus of AC of window W1 
in the DSe 
is: wus(AC) =
[twu(t1) +twu(t3) +twu(t4) ]/sumtwu(W1) =
(0.48 +0.37 +0.97)/2.52 ≈0.72.
The challenge of mining FWUPs from a dynamic quantitative data stream, employing the sliding window approach, involves 
indentifying all FWUPs that attain a wus value that meets or exceeds a user-defined minimum weighted utility support threshold 
(minwus) within each data window.
3.2. Tidset data structure
The tidset data structure was first proposed by Zaki and Gouda [38] for mining FPs. Subsequently, many studies have applied this 
data structure to pattern mining problems and achieved significant efficiency. Nguyen et al. [9] also proposed an algorithm, named 
dFWUT, utilizing the tidset structure to mine FWUPs on dQDB. Fundamentally, the tidset of a pattern P, denoted as t(P), is the set 
storing the Tid values of transactions contained P in the dQDB: t(P) = {t ∈dQDB|P ⊆t}. Based on tidset, we can quickly generate new 
patterns and determine whether a pattern is FWUP as follows.
Given two (k-1)-patterns, Pu and Pv, with the same prefix P, where u and v are two items belonging to I. The tidset of two patterns Pu 
and Pv are t(Pu) and t(Pv), respectively. Puv is a new pattern formed from Pu and Pv with tidset t(Puv) calculated as follows. 
t(Puv) = t(Pu) ∩t(Pv)
(3) 
The wus of the pattern Puv is determined based on t(Puv) as. 
wus(Puv) =
∑
tk∈t(Puv)twu(tk)
sumtwu
.
(4) 
Example 4.
Consider a dQDB consisting of four transactions {t1, t2, t3, t4} as shown in Fig. 2. We have item A and C have tidset t(A) = {
1, 3, 4} and t{C} = {1, 2, 3, 4}, respectively. The pattern AC formed from A and C has tidset t(AC) = t(A) ∩t(C) = {1, 3, 4} and wus(AC) =
0.72.
3.3. WUNList data structure
The WUNList data structure is an extension of the N-list structure [29], proposed by Nguyen et al. [9], to efficiently mine FWUPs 
from dQDB. The WUNList is a list consisting of one or more WUN-codes, where each WUN-code is a tuple of three values: pre, post, and 
weight. The WUN-codes of a 1-FWUP are initially generated from the WUN-tree. The WUN-tree represents a hierarchical data structure 
characterized by a singular root node accompanied by an array of subordinate child nodes. Each node in the WUN-tree stores five 
fields: name, weight, pre, post, and children, which represent the name of the item, the cumulative transaction weighted utility asso­
ciated with the node, the sequences of pre-order and post-order traversals associated with the node, along with the corresponding child 
nodes of this particular node. Fig. 3 illustrates the WUN-tree of the dQDB with four transactions {t1, t2, t3, t4} (from Fig. 2) and 
minwus = 0.5. Item B is eliminated because wus(B) < minwus. Item A has WUN-code 〈3, 1, 1.45〉and 〈6,5,0.37〉, thus the WUNList of 
item A is wunl(A) = {〈3,1,1.45〉,〈6,5,0.37〉}.
Table 2 
The weight sets of items.
Weight
A
B
C
D
E
dw1
0.2
0.4
0.2
0.4
0.5
dw2
0.5
0.3
0.4
0.6
0.6
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
6 


=== PAGE 7 ===
The authors have presented the definitions and theorems to quickly generate new patterns by intersecting two WUNLists and 
calculating the wus value of a pattern from the information stored in the WUNList as follows.
Let I1 be the set of items in I after sorting in descending order according to the weighted utility support of each item. Given two 
(k-1)-patterns, Pu and Pv, with the WUNLists of wunl(Pu) and wunl(Pv), respectively. These two patterns share the same prefix P, where 
v precedes u in I1. The WUNList of the k-pattern Puv, wunl(Puv), is created as follows: (1) For each WUN-code Ci〈prei, posti, weighti〉∈
wunl(Pu) and Cj〈prej,postj,weightj〉∈wunl(Pv), if Cj is an ancestor of Ci, add 〈prej, postj, weighti〉to wunl(Puv). Cj is an ancestor of Ci if and 
only if prej < prei and postj > posti. (2) Traverse wunl(Puv) and merge WUN-codes with the same pre value into new WUN-code with a 
weight value equal to the sum of the weights of these WUN-codes.
The wus of the pattern P, wus(P), with WUNList of wunl(P) = {〈prej, postj, weightj〉}m
j=1, is determined as follows. 
wus(P) =
∑m
i=1weighti
sumtwu
.
(5) 
Example 5.
From WUN-tree in Fig. 3, we have wunl(C) = {〈1, 6, 2.52〉} and wunl(E) = {〈4, 0, 0.48〉, 〈5, 2, 0.7〉, 〈7, 4, 0.37〉}, with 
wus(C) = 2.52/2.52 = 1 and wus(E) = (0.48 +0.7 +0.37)/2.52 ≈0.62, respectively. We can quickly calculate the WUNList of the pattern 
EC as wunl(EC) = {〈1, 6, 1.55〉} and wus(EC) = 1.55/2.52 ≈0.62.
3.4. Overall framework
To address the challenges of mining FWUPs over dynamic quantitative data streams, we propose a continuous, pane-based sliding 
window framework. The high-level architecture of this framework is illustrated in Fig. 4. This framework provides an overview of the 
entire mining process, which consists of three primary stages: window management, FWUP mining, and result outputting.
The process begins with the window management stage, which activates upon the arrival of a new data pane from the stream. This 
stage first scans the data in the new pane and then constructs or updates the proposed data structures (the CTset and DSWUN-tree, 
described in Section 4 and Section 5). It ensures that all relevant data within the new window are completely and accurately main­
tained. Next, the FWUP mining stage is executed. This stage leverages the information stored in the updated data structures to 
recursively identify all patterns that satisfy the minwus threshold. Once mining is complete, the process proceeds to the final result 
outputting stage, where the complete set of discovered FWUPs is provided to the user for the current window. The framework then 
iterates, looping back to the window management stage to await the next data pane. This update-then-mine architecture ensures that 
Table 3 
The twu values of all transactions in DSe.
Transaction
Weight
Formula
twu
t1
dw1
(0.2 × 1 + 0.2 × 2 + 0.4 × 2 + 0.5 × 1) / 4
0.48
t2
dw1
(0.4 × 2 + 0.2 × 1 + 0.4 × 2 + 0.5 × 2) / 4
0.7
t3
dw1
(0.2 × 2 + 0.2 × 1 + 0.5 × 1) / 3
0.37
t4
dw2
(0.5 × 1 + 0.4 × 3 + 0.6 × 2) / 3
0.97
t5
dw2
(0.3 × 1 + 0.4 × 1 + 0.6 × 1) / 3
0.43
t6
dw2
(0.5 × 2 + 0.4 × 2 + 0.6 × 3 + 0.6 × 1) / 4
1.05
Fig. 3. The WUN-tree is created from W1 of DSe with minwus = 0.5.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
7 


=== PAGE 8 ===
mining is always performed on the most up-to-date data, while the specialized data structures introduced in the following sections 
eliminate the need for expensive rescans of the complete window.
4. Mining FWUPs using Circular Tidset data structure over data streams
4.1. Circular Tidset data structure
The first proposed algorithm for mining FWUPs over dynamic quantitative data streams is named FWUDS-CT, which utilizes the 
Circular Tidset data structure. Although the tidset structure was initially designed for static databases with a fixed number of trans­
actions, it could be adapted for data streams due to its single-scan nature. A notable limitation of the tidset structure, however, is that 
the Tid values can grow excessively large in data streams that feature an unlimited number of transactions, making the processing of 
large numbers both complex and resource-intensive. To address this, we developed a novel data structure called Circular Tidset, 
denoted as CTset, which is an improvement of the tidset structure, specifically designed to accommodate data streams more efficiently. 
Definition 5.
The local transaction identifier, denoted as lcTid, is the identification value of a transaction in the current window. Initially, 
lcTid has a value of 0. If a new transaction is added, the lcTid of that transaction is calculated as follows: 
lcTid =
{
lcTid + 1,
if lcTid < |W|
1,
if lcTid = |W|
(6) 
where |W| represents the total count of transactions in the window.
The local transaction identifier is used to uniquely identify transactions within the current sliding window, rather than across the 
entire data stream. At the beginning of the window, the lcTid of the first transaction is initialized to 0 and incremented for each newly 
added transaction. Once the window reaches its maximum size, the sliding operation removes the oldest transaction and admits a new 
one, during which the lcTid values are reused in a circular manner. This local indexing mechanism enables the rapid identification of 
transactions to be evicted or updated as the window slides, eliminating the need to maintain a global identifier. Consequently, it 
reduces search overhead, minimizes memory consumption, and enhances update efficiency in continuous data stream environments. 
Example 6.
Fig. 5 shows DSe after adding the lcTid values. Window W1 has four transactions, t1, t2, t3, and t4, with lcTid values of 1, 2, 3, 
and 4, respectively. Window W2 has four transactions, t3, t4, t5, and t6, with lcTid values of 3, 4, 1, and 2, respectively. We can easily see that 
the lcTid value does not exceed |W|.
Fig. 4. Overall framework of the proposed method.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
8 


=== PAGE 9 ===
Definition 6.
Circular Tidset, denoted as CTset, of a pattern X in window Wi is a list storing the lcTids of transactions containing X in window 
Wi. 
CTset(X, Wi) = {lcTid(t) ∈Wi|X ⊆t }
(7) 
Example 7.
According to Fig. 5, in window W1, pattern A appears in three transactions t1, t3, and t4, so CTset(A, W1) = {1, 3, 4}. Similarly, 
in window W2, three transactions t3, t4, and t6 contain pattern A, thus CTset(A,W2) = {3,4,2}.
Definition 7.
The wus value of a pattern X in window Wi is calculated based on CTset(X, Wi) as follows: 
wus(X, Wi) =
∑
k∈CTset(X,Wi)twu(t|lcTid(t, Wi) = k )
sumtwu(Wi)
,
(8) 
Where lcTid(t, Wi) is the lcTid value of transaction t in window Wi. 
Example 8.
From Example 7, we have CTset(A,W2) = {3,4,2}, so wus(A, W2) = (twu(t3) + twu(t4) + twu(t6))/sumtwu(W2) = (0.37 +
0.97 + 1.05)/2.82 ≈0.85.
4.2. Maintaining CTsets over data stream
After the initialization of the first window, the sliding window process commences, involving changes to the data within the 
window: transactions from the oldest pane are removed, and new ones are added. This requires updating the CTset for each item to 
reflect the data of the current window. When adding a new pane into the window, the lcTid for each new transaction is calculated 
according to Definition 5. Then, the lcTid is added to the end of the CTset of the items appearing in that transaction. Consequently, the 
order of the newest transaction information in the CTset will be at the end of the list, while the beginning of the list will contain the 
lcTid of the older transactions. The operation of removing the oldest pane from the window is more complex and is performed before 
the addition operation. We can determine the lcTids of the oldest pane as follows. 
Theorem 1.
Suppose the lcTid of the newest transaction in the current window has a value of n (the window is full), then the oldest pane in 
this window will contain transactions with lcTid value in [n +1, n +|P|] if n < |W|, and in [1, |P|] if n = |W|.
Proof: Clearly, with n = |W|, the lcTid value of the transactions in this window are sequentially {1,2,⋯,n −1,n}, thus the oldest pane 
will include transactions with lcTid as [1,2,⋯|P| −1,|P|}. Similarly, with n < |W|, the current window contains lcTids sequentially {n +
1,n + 2,⋯,|W|,1,2,⋯,n}, so oldest pane includes lcTids value {n + 1,n + 2,⋯,n + |P|}.
Based on Theorem 1, we traverse the CTset of all items appearing in the window from the beginning to the end of the list. For each 
item, if the lcTids value belongs to the oldest pane, it will be removed from the CTset. Otherwise, we terminate the process for the 
current item and proceed to the next one, as the following transactions are certainly not from the oldest pane. Given the need to add 
and remove elements at both ends of the list, we use the linked list data structure to manage the CTset. The pseudocode for these two 
operations is shown in Fig. 6. 
Example 9.
The window W1 in DSe includes two panes with four transactions. The CTset of the items in W1 is determined as shown in Fig. 7
(a), and the lcTid value of the lastest transaction in W1 is Curr lcTid = 4. The sliding window process from W1 to W2 updates the CTset of items 
as follows. First, we remove the oldest pane P1 in W1. Since Curr lcTid = |W|, the oldest pane includes lcTid values of 1 and 2, which will be 
deleted from the CTset of items (Fig. 7(b)). Next, the new pane P3 containing two transactions t5, t6 is added with lcTid values of 1 and 2, 
respectively. Transaction t5 has items B, C, and D, so lcTid(t5) = 1 is added to the end of the CTset for these items. Similarly, lcTid(t6) = 2 is 
added to the CTset of items A, C, D, and E. At the end of the process, we obtain the CTset of the items in W2 (Fig. 7(c)), and the new Curr lcTid 
value is 2.
Fig. 5. DSeWith Tid and lcTid values.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
9 


=== PAGE 10 ===
4.3. A linear method for intersecting CTsets
CTset stores transaction information of patterns in the current window. Similar to the tidset structure, the CTset of a new pattern 
can be determined by intersecting the CTsets of two patterns with the same prefix. With a native approach, the complexity of this 
intersection function is O(mn), where m and n are the lengths of the two CTsets, respectively. The traditional tidset structure ensures 
increasing monotonicity, making it easy to intersect two tidsets with a complexity of O(m + n). The CTset does not have this property. 
However, we have researched and developed a method to achieve linear complexity for the CTsets intersection function based on the 
following theorem. 
Fig. 6. Algorithm for adding and removing panes using CTset structure.
Fig. 7. The process of updating the CTset of items when sliding window from W1 to W2 in DSe.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
10 


=== PAGE 11 ===
Theorem 2.
Let tx and ty be two different transactions in the current window with lcTid values lcTidx and lcTidy, respectively, and the 
Curr lcTid be the lcTid value of the newest transaction in this window. Transaction ty is newer than tx when (1) lcTidx < lcTidy ≤Curr lcTid, 
or (2) Curr lcTid < lcTidx < lcTidy, or (3) lcTidx > Curr lcTid and lcTidy ≤Curr lcTid.
Proof: With Curr lcTid = |W|, the lcTid values of transactions in the window in chronological order are {1, 2, ⋯, Curr lcTid −1,
Curr lcTid}. It is evident that transaction ty is more recent than transaction tx if lcTidx < lcTidy ≤Curr lcTid.
With Curr lcTid < |W|, the lcTid values of transactions in the window in chronological order are {Curr lcTid + 1,Curr lcTid + 2,⋯,
|W|,1,2,⋯,Curr lcTid}. In this case, there are two cycles within the window: {Curr lcTid +1, Curr lcTid +2, ⋯, |W|} belongs to the old 
cycle and {1, 2, ⋯, Curr lcTid} to the new cycle. If transactions tx and ty both belong to the same cycle, then transaction ty is newer than 
transaction tx if lcTidx < lcTidy ≤Curr lcTid (same new cycle), or Curr lcTid < lcTidx < lcTidy (same old cycle). If the two transactions 
are from different cycles, transaction ty is newer than transaction tx if transaction ty is in the new cycle, while transaction tx is in the old 
cycle, or lcTidx > Curr lcTid and lcTidy ≤Curr lcTid.
According to Theorem 2, the process of creating a CTset of a new pattern is effectively performed with linear complexity and is 
described in Fig. 8. The inputs for the CTsets intersection function are CTset CT1 of pattern PX, CTset CT2 of pattern PY, Curr lcTid as 
the lcTid of the newest transaction in the window, and w and p as the values of window size and pane size, respectively. First, we 
initialize the CTset CT3 of pattern PXY as empty, ptr1 and ptr2 store the first element of CT1 and CT2, respectively (line 1–2). The 
algorithm sequentially compares the lcTid values of ptr1 and ptr2 according to Theorem 2. To facilitate comparison, we employ a 
technique to increase the lcTid by |W| = w*p units if its value is less than or equal to Curr lcTid. This indicates that this lcTid belongs to 
the newly added transaction to distinguish it from older transactions with lcTids greater than Curr lcTid (lines 4–8). Next, the two 
newly updated values lcTid1 and lcTid2 are compared according to the cases (lines 9–13): 
1) If lcTid1 = lcTid2, we add lcTid value of ptr1 to CT3 and then move to the next element of both CT1 and CT2.
2) If lcTid1 < lcTid2, we move to the next element of CT1.
3) If lcTid1 > lcTid2, we move to the next element of CT2.
This process is continued until one of the two CTsets is fully traversed. The final result is the CTset of pattern PXY with a complexity 
of O(m + n).
4.4. The FWUDS-CT algorithm
This section presents the FWUDS-CT algorithm for mining FWUPs on sliding window-based data streams (Fig. 9). When a new data 
Fig. 8. Intersection algorithm of two CTsets.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
11 


=== PAGE 12 ===
pane is added, the algorithm will return all FWUPs in the new window that satisfy the minwus threshold to the user. First, the algorithm 
updates the CTsets in the new window by removing the oldest pane using the RemoveOldestPane procedure (line 1) and adding the 
new pane using the InsertNewPane procedure (line 2). After updating data, we filter for 1-FWUPs, which are items with a wus value 
greater than or equal to minwus, stores these 1-FWUPs in C1, and calls the MiningFWUPs_CTset procedure to mine FWUPs (lines 3–6). 
The MiningFWUPs_CTset procedure is recursively called using the CTset data structure to mine FWUPs. The CTset of the candidate 
k-pattern X is formed from the (k −1)-FWUPs with the same equivalent class stored in C (lines 4–5). If the wus of X is not less than 
minwus, X is an FWUP and is added to Cnext to serve the following candidate generation process (lines 6–8). This process continues until 
no new patterns are generated. Finally, we obtain all the FWUPs from the most recent data of the window, and these tasks are repeated 
whenever a new pane is entered.
5. Mining FWUPs using DSWUN-tree data structure over data streams
5.1. The DSWUN-tree data structure
Nguyen et al. introduced the WUNList data structure [9] to discover FWUPs from dQDB, achieving superior experimental results in 
terms of both runtime and memory usage. The WUNList is generated from the WUN-tree structure, which is an extension of the N-list 
structure [29]. The WUN-tree compresses the database in tree nodes and eliminates infrequent items. However, the WUN-tree is 
limited to databases with a fixed number of transactions and requires up to two scans to be constructed. Building the WUN-tree is time- 
consuming, especially as the data size increases. Therefore, this structure is unsuitable to apply the sliding window model over data 
streams. To address this issue, we propose a new tree structure, named the DSWUN-tree, designed specifically to efficiently mine 
FWUPs within data streams. 
Definition 8.
The DSWUN-tree is a tree structure consisting of a root node and a set of child nodes. Each node in the DSWUN-tree 
includes six fields (name, weight, pre, post, children, and parent), where name represents the item corresponding to the node, weight is the 
total twu of transactions passing through the node, pre is the order of the node in preorder traversal, post is the order in post-order 
traversal, children is the list of child nodes, and parent is the parent of the current node.
Unlike the WUN-tree, the proposed DSWUN-tree structure additionally stores the parent node to facilitate tree updates when data 
Fig. 9. FWUDS-CT algorithm.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
12 


=== PAGE 13 ===
changes. Moreover, the DSWUN-tree stores the entire database without removing infrequent items. A significant advantage of the 
DSWUN-tree is that it only requires a single database scan to update the tree, which can then be maintained and mined multiple times 
with various thresholds. However, the DSWUN-tree requires more memory for storage due to retaining more information. Addi­
tionally, we use an auxiliary linked list, named TAILLIST, to store the last node of each transaction added to the tree. We use this list to 
quickly update the tree when data changes. The algorithm for construction of the DSWUN-tree is described in Fig. 10. 
Example 10.
Fig. 11 illustrates DSWUN-tree created after adding the first four transactions of window W1 in DSe, denoted as DSWUN-tree 
(W1). The transactions are reordered based on the twu values and added to the tree. Specifically, transaction t1 is reordered as {C, D, A, E}, t2 as 
{C, D, E, B}, t3 as {C, A, E}, and t4 as {C, D, A}. For each transaction added to the DSWUN-tree, the final node associated with this transaction 
is incorporated into the TAILLIST, resulting in TAILLIST having four tail nodes corresponding to the four transactions in W1.
5.2. Updating the DSWUN-tree
In the sliding window phase, when a new pane is added, the oldest pane is removed from the DSWUN-tree because it is no longer in 
the current window. Utilizing the TAILLIST and the parent node information stored at each node, we can easily extract the transactions 
in the oldest pane and delete them from the DSWUN-tree. Fig. 12 describes the algorithm for updating the DSWUN-tree. First, each 
transaction in the newest pane is added to the DSWUN-tree using the InsertTree subprocedure (lines 1, 2). Then, we iterate |P| times, 
corresponding to the |P| transactions in the oldest pane. For each iteration, we consider the first node in the TAILLIST corresponding to 
transaction ti. Next, we reduce the weight of the current node by the twu value of this transaction. If the weight of this node diminishes 
to zero, it will be removed from the tree. Then, we move up to its parent node. This process repeats until we reach the root node of the 
DSWUN-tree (lines 4–7). Finally, in line 8, we remove the first node from the TAILLIST and start the next iteration. At the end of the 
update process, we obtain the DSWUN-tree for the new window. 
Example 11.
Examine the mechanism of the sliding window transition from W1 to W2 in DSe, where P3 is the newest pane and P1 is 
the oldest pane. The process of updating the DSWUN-tree is shown in Fig. 13. First, pane P3 includes two transactions, t5 and t6, which 
are added to the DSWUN-tree as shown in Fig. 13(a) and 13(b), respectively. Then, the transactions t1 and t2 of pane P1 that are not in 
W2, thus being removed from the DSWUN-tree. For transaction t1, the tail node in the TAILLIST is (E : 1.53), we decrease the weight of 
this node by twu(t1) = 0.48, and the node is updated to (E : 1.05). The algorithm moves up to its parent node (A : 2.02) and reduces its 
weight by 0.48. We continue to decrease the weight by 0.48 on its ancestor nodes (D : 3.63) and (C : 4). We obtain the DSWUN-tree 
after removing transaction t1, as depicted in Fig. 13(c). The process of removing transaction t2 is similarly performed and described in 
Fig. 13(d). We decrease the weight of the tail node (B : 0.7) by twu(t2) = 0.7. The remaining weight value is 0, hence this node is 
removed from the DSWUN-tree. Next, the parent node (E : 0.7) is also removed from the DSWUN-tree because its remaining weight 
equals zero after decreasing it by 0.7. Finally, we traverse the two ancestor nodes (D : 3.15) and (C : 3.52) and update them to (D :
2.45) and (E : 2.82), respectively. The process completes, and we obtain the updated DSWUN-tree with the new data in window W2.
Fig. 10. The dswun-tree construction algorithm.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
13 


=== PAGE 14 ===
5.3. The FWUDS-DWT algorithm
Using the techniques described above, the proposed algorithm, FWUDS-DWT, efficiently searches for FWUPs in sliding window- 
based data streams, as depicted in Fig. 14. Fundamentally, the operational mechanism of FWUDS-DWT is quite similar to the 
FWUDS-CT algorithm. First, in line 1, the algorithm calls the Update_DSWUN¡tree procedure to update the data in the new window. 
The oldest pane in DSWUN-tree is removed, and a new pane is added to DSWUN-tree. Next, the FWUDS-DWT algorithm proceeds to 
find the 1-FWUPs, and storing them in I1 (line 2). We traverse DSWUN-tree to derive the pre and post values associated with each 
individual node and creating the WUNList for these patterns in I1 (line 3). Afterward, the MineFWUPs_WUNList procedure is called to 
mine all FWUPs that meet the minwus threshold in the current window (lines 4–5). MineFWUPs_WUNList uses a depth-first search 
method, combined with the WUNList data structure, to quickly identify the next FWUPs. The process ceases when no new patterns 
emerge, and the FWUPs are provided to the user. The algorithm then continues the sliding window process for the next pane.
Fig. 11. The DSWUN-tree is formed from W1 of DSe.
Fig. 12. The algorithm for updating DSWUN-tree.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
14 


=== PAGE 15 ===
6. Evaluation
In this section, we present the empirical findings derived from the comparative analysis of two algorithms designed for mining 
FWUPs in dynamic quantitative data streams using the sliding window mechanism. The two proposed algorithms, FWUDS-CT and 
FWUDS-DWT, are compared with a modified version of the dFWUNL algorithm [9] (denoted as dFWUNL-stream). The dFWUNL al­
gorithm is the current SOTA algorithm for mining FWUPs in dQDB. We have modified this algorithm to work on data streams while 
ensuring that performance and complexity are consistent with the original version. The experiments were executed to validate the 
practical effectiveness of the suggested theoretical enhancements for mining FWUPs on dynamic quantitative data streams. Specif­
ically, we evaluated four key aspects: (1) the data update time during window sliding, which reflects the efficiency of each data 
structure; (2) the total execution time, indicating the overall computational cost; (3) the memory consumption, representing the space 
efficiency of the proposed models; and (4) scalability, assessing the performance of each algorithm under increasing data volumes.
6.1. Experimental settings
The dFWUNL-stream, FWUDS-CT, and FWUDS-DWT algorithms were implemented in C# 2022 on the.NET Framework 4.7.2 
platform. All experiments were conducted on a Windows 11 machine with an Intel Core i5-9400F processor operating at 2.9 GHz and 
32 GB of RAM. We also explicitly state that no parallelization techniques were used, and all experiments were run on a single thread. 
Table 4 summarizes the characteristics of the datasets used in these experiments. Retail, Accident, BMS-POS, and Kosarak were ob­
tained from the FIMI repository (https://fimi.uantwerpen.be/data/). Susy was downloaded from the open-source library SPMF 
(https://www.philippe-fournier-viger.com/spmf/). To emulate dynamic quantitative data streams, each dataset was partitioned into 
multiple batches of equal size, with the final batch containing any remaining transactions. Item weights were randomly assigned for 
each batch, with values drawn from the interval [1,10].
Due to the varying sizes and characteristics of the experimental datasets, the window sizes, pane sizes, and minwus thresholds were 
Fig. 13. The process of updating the DSWUN-tree from window W1 to W2.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
15 


=== PAGE 16 ===
Fig. 14. FWUDS-DWT algorithm.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
16 


=== PAGE 17 ===
tailored for each dataset. This guarantees a distinct assessment of performance among the various algorithms. The experimental 
process on each dataset is conducted as follows. First, the algorithms sequentially scan the panes in the first window, build a data 
structure to store them and mine FWUPs within that window. Following this, the sliding window mechanism is activated: the oldest 
pane is removed, and a new pane is added. Subsequently, the FWUPs in the updated window are mined. All tests were conducted by 
sliding the window 50 times. Since three algorithms effectively identify all FWUPs, their performance is evaluated based on runtime, 
memory usage, and scalability. The runtime was measured as the total elapsed time from the initiation of the algorithm to its 
completion. Meanwhile, the memory consumption was determined based on the peak amount of memory utilized by the algorithm 
during its execution.
6.2. Runtime for data updates
First, we executed a series of experiments to assess the ability of the algorithms to construct structures and update data during the 
sliding window process. This is a critical task that significantly affects the efficiency of the algorithms, especially given the speed and 
continuity of the data stream. Figs. 15–19 show the results on experimental datasets. The algorithms were executed on three different 
minwus thresholds for each dataset, with a fixed pane size of 1. The total time for the data update process was then aggregated. Fig. 15
illustrates the findings derived from the Retail dataset with a window size of 88,000P (panes) and minwus thresholds of 0.3%, 0.2%, 
and 0.1%, respectively. The chart in Fig. 15(d) shows that the FWUDS-CT and FWUDS-DWT algorithms took significantly less time for 
data construction and updates compared to the dFWUNL-stream algorithm, with the FWUDS-CT algorithm having the shortest run­
time. Furthermore, as the minwus threshold decreases, the runtime of the dFWUNL-stream algorithm increases, while the two proposed 
algorithms maintain nearly stable runtimes. This is because the dFWUNL-stream algorithm needs to continuously scan the database to 
create the WUN-tree for each new window. In contrast, the two proposed methods require time only to construct the CTsets and 
Table 4 
The features of the experimental datasets.
Dataset
# Items
# Trans
Avg. length
Type
# Trans of each batch
Description
Retail
16,470
88,162
10.3
Sparse
10,000
E-commerce customer transactions
Accidents
468
340,183
33.8
Dense
5,000
Anonymized traffic accident data
BMS-POS
1,657
515,597
6.5
Sparse
50,000
Large-retailer Point-of-Sale data
Kosarak
41,270
990,002
8.1
Sparse
100,000
News portal clickstream data
Susy
190
5,000,000
19
Dense
200,000
High-energy physics data
Fig. 15. Runtime for data updates on the Retail dataset with varying minwus thresholds.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
17 


=== PAGE 18 ===
Fig. 16. Runtime for data updates on the Accidents dataset with varying minwus thresholds.
Fig. 17. Runtime for data updates on the BMS-POS dataset with varying minwus thresholds.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
18 


=== PAGE 19 ===
Fig. 18. Runtime for data updates on the Kosarak dataset with varying minwus thresholds.
Fig. 19. Runtime for data updates on the Susy dataset with varying minwus thresholds.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
19 


=== PAGE 20 ===
DSWUN-tree structures for the first window, with almost no additional time needed for the sliding window process thereafter. The data 
from the old window is reused, with the update process simply removing the oldest pane and adding the newest one. As a result, after 
50 times sliding windows, the total runtime of the FWUDS-CT and FWUDS-DWT algorithms is superior to that of the dFWUNL-stream 
algorithm. Similar results were observed for the Accidents, BMS-POS, Kosarak, and Susy datasets, with window sizes of 340,000P, 
515,000P, 980,000P, and 4,000,000P, respectively. Notably, as the window size increases, the difference in the total time required for 
data construction and updates between the algorithms becomes more pronounced.
6.3. Runtime for FWUP mining
Fig. 20 shows the total mining time of FWUPs for the FWUDS-CT, FWUDS-DWT, and dFWUNL-stream algorithms on datasets with 
varying minwus thresholds. The mining time is measured from the start of the algorithm until it terminates. The window size and pane 
size are fixed, as described in Section 6.2. Due to the significant difference in runtime between the algorithms, we use a logarithmic 
scale (log2) for the runtime to facilitate comparison and presentation on the chart. The results show a trend where, as the minwus 
threshold decreases, the mining time of the algorithms increases. This is because, as the threshold lowers, the number of FWUPs in­
creases, causing the algorithms to take more time to find all the satisfying patterns. Although the FWUDS-CT algorithm is efficient in 
data construction and updates, it takes more time to mine FWUPs. Moreover, with very small thresholds or very large datasets, such as 
Susy, the FWUDS-CT algorithm fails due to memory overflow. In contrast, the FWUDS-DWT algorithm demonstrates superiority, 
achieving the shortest runtime among the three algorithms tested. This is due to the efficiency of data updates using the DSWUN-tree 
structure, combined with the optimization of the mining process through the WUNList structure. For example, on the Retail dataset 
with a minwus threshold of 0.2%, the FWUDS-CT algorithm took 223 s, the dFWUNL-stream algorithm took 25 s, while the FWUDS- 
DWT algorithm took only 13.5 s. On the BMS-POS dataset with a threshold of 0.4%, the total mining times of the FWUDS-CT, FWUDS- 
DWT, and dFWUNL-stream algorithms after 50 times sliding windows were 845 s, 105.8 s, and 174.9 s, respectively.
6.4. Memory usage
To ensure a comprehensive evaluation, we conducted a systematic analysis of the peak memory consumption of the proposed 
algorithms compared with the baseline algorithm. This analysis is particularly crucial, as memory efficiency is often a primary 
constraint in data stream processing. The peak memory consumption (measured in megabytes, MB) was recorded for all algorithms 
across five datasets under varying minwus thresholds, as illustrated in Fig. 21. The window size and pane size parameters were 
configured as described in Subsection 6.2.
The experimental results highlight distinct differences and inherent design trade-offs among the algorithms. Overall, as the minwus 
threshold decreases, a greater number of FWUPs satisfy the condition, leading to increased memory usage across all methods. The 
FWUDS-DWT algorithm consistently exhibits the highest memory usage across all datasets. Specifically, its memory consumption 
remains nearly constant for certain datasets, approximately 1500 MB on Susy and 835 MB on Kosarak, regardless of the minwus value. 
This stability arises because the FWUDS-DWT algorithm maintains the entire DSWUN-tree structure in main memory, representing all 
transactions within the current sliding window. Furthermore, the DSWUN-tree structure is inherently complex and information- 
intensive, requiring substantial storage space. Although this design incurs considerable memory overhead, it enables FWUDS-DWT 
to achieve high runtime efficiency and support rapid data updates.
Conversely, the FWUDS-CT algorithm demonstrates superior memory efficiency on sparse datasets but performs less effectively on 
dense data. On the Retail and BMS-POS datasets, it is the most memory-efficient method, consuming only about 38.1 MB on Retail at 
minwus = 0.03, compared with 222 MB for FWUDS-DWT and 134.9 MB for dFWUNL-stream. This efficiency arises from its lightweight 
CTset data structure, which minimizes memory allocation in sparse data environments. However, when applied to dense datasets, the 
size of the item transaction identifier lists grows rapidly, resulting in significant memory expansion. Consequently, FWUDS-CT exhibits 
excessive runtime on Accidents at low thresholds and fails to execute on the large Susy dataset due to out-of-memory errors.
Meanwhile, the baseline algorithm, dFWUNL-stream, also demonstrates notable memory efficiency across datasets. This advantage 
stems from its strategy of constructing the WUN-tree only for items satisfying the minwus threshold and discarding it after generating 
the final WUN-list in each independent window. In contrast, both proposed algorithms retain all window data to support rapid updates. 
For instance, on the Retail dataset, FWUDS-CT consumes 33.4 MB, FWUDS-DWT consumes 110.4 MB, whereas dFWUNL-stream re­
quires only 25.7 MB.
To furnish a thorough evaluation of efficacy regarding both execution duration and memory consumption, Table 5 summarizes the 
comparative results, reporting the percentage changes in runtime and memory usage of the proposed algorithms relative to the 
dFWUNL-stream baseline for each dataset. Positive values (+%) indicate performance improvements, reflected as reductions in 
runtime or memory usage. Negative values (–%) indicate performance degradation, corresponding to increases in runtime or memory 
consumption relative to the baseline.
6.5. Scalability
This section analyzes the scalability of the algorithms utilizing two extensive datasets, namely Kosarak and Susy. The evaluation is 
conducted by examining the efficiency of the algorithms as the window size and pane size gradually increase. Fig. 22 shows the 
scalability results for the data construction and update process on the Kosarak dataset, with the minwus threshold fixed at 0.2%. The 
window sizes were set to 700P, 750P, and 800P, with pane sizes of 600, 800, and 1000, respectively. The results indicate that as the 
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
20 


=== PAGE 21 ===
window size and pane size increase, the data construction and update times of the algorithms also increase. According to the charts, the 
update times for the CTsets-based and DSWUN-tree-based methods increase slowly, while the dFWUNL-stream algorithm’s update 
time increases rapidly with larger sizes. Fig. 23 shows the data update times on the Susy dataset with a minwus threshold of 10% after 
50 times sliding windows. The window sizes and pane sizes were set to 800P – 3000, 900P – 3500, and 1000P – 4000, respectively. 
Similar to the Kosarak dataset, the results on the Susy dataset also demonstrate the stability of the FWUDS-CT and FWUDS-DWT 
algorithms during the data update process, even as the window size and pane size increase. In Fig. 23(d), with a window size of 
800P and a pane size of 3000, the FWUDS-CT algorithm takes a total update time of 14 s, FWUDS-DWT takes 12.1 s, while the 
dFWUNL-stream algorithm takes 220.6 s. As the window size increases to 900P and the pane size to 3500 transactions, the FWUDS-CT 
algorithm takes 23.6 s, FWUDS-DWT takes 15.3 s, and dFWUNL-stream takes 294.8 s. Fig. 24 shows the scalability results in terms of 
total mining time for the algorithms on both datasets. As the window and pane sizes increase, the number of transactions in each 
window also increases, leading the algorithms to take more time to identify all FWUPs. The FWUDS-DWT algorithm exhibits a more 
stable increase in time compared to the other two algorithms. Therefore, we can confirm that the FWUDS-DWT algorithm has superior 
scalability when the size of the data stream changes.
Fig. 25 presents the memory scalability results of the algorithms under identical experimental conditions. On the sparse Kosarak 
dataset, the memory consumption of all three algorithms, FWUDS-CT, dFWUNL-stream, and FWUDS-DWT, increases nearly linearly 
with window size. This behavior aligns with theoretical expectations, as storing more transactions in memory requires additional space 
for their corresponding data structures. Among the three, FWUDS-DWT exhibits the highest absolute memory usage, which can be 
attributed to its design of maintaining the entire DSWUN-tree structure representing all transactions within the current window. The 
Fig. 20. Total runtime for FWUP mining on the experimental datasets with varying minwus thresholds.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
21 


=== PAGE 22 ===
results on the dense Susy dataset provide further insight into the effect of data density on memory scalability. As previously noted, 
FWUDS-CT fails to execute under this condition due to out-of-memory errors. FWUDS-DWT’s memory usage scales from 1024.3 MB to 
1500.9 MB as the window size increases. Notably, the baseline dFWUNL-stream algorithm demonstrates the best memory scalability in 
this scenario, with memory usage increasing only slightly—from 184 MB to 235.6 MB. This outcome can be explained by the relatively 
high minwus threshold applied to the Susy dataset, which limits the number of frequent items and keeps the WUN-tree structure 
compact even as the input data volume grows. Overall, the increase in FWUDS-DWT’s memory consumption is acceptable given its 
superior runtime efficiency.
Fig. 21. Memory usage for FWUP mining on the experimental datasets with varying minwus thresholds.
Table 5 
Summary of runtime and memory performance changes compared to the baseline.
Dataset
minwus(%)
Runtime reduction (%)
Memory reduction (%)
FWUDS-CT
FWUDS-DWT
FWUDS-CT
FWUDS-DWT
Retail
0.1%
−1,469.8%
33.5%
33%
−138.8%
Accidents
40%
−12,205.8%
29.3%
−870.8%
−1,186.2%
BMS-POS
0.2%
−489.9%
27.1%
19.7%
−64%
Kosarak
0.2%
−544.7%
15%
−25.2%
−240%
Susy
11%
N/A
55.9%
N/A
−214.1%
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
22 


=== PAGE 23 ===
Fig. 22. Runtime for data updates on the Kosarak dataset with varying window sizes and pane sizes.
Fig. 23. Runtime for data updates on the Susy dataset with varying window sizes and pane sizes.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
23 


=== PAGE 24 ===
7. Complexity analysis and discussion
In this section, we elucidate the intricate complexity analysis pertaining to the methodologies that have been proposed. Based on 
the analytical results, we also discuss the inherent limitations of the algorithms under various real-world data stream scenarios. The 
time complexity of the FWUDS-CT algorithm consists of two primary components: window maintenance and mining. When a new pane 
of size p arrives, the window update process is executed using the InsertNewPane and RemoveOldestPane procedures (the latter is 
invoked when the window is full). The InsertNewPane procedure iterates through p transactions, each containing up to lmax items, 
where lmax denotes the maximum transaction length in the current window. Each item requires an lcTid insertion operation with a 
constant cost of O(1), leading to a time complexity of O(p × lmax). For the RemoveOldestPane procedure, the algorithm iterates 
through m CTsets, where m represents the number of unique items in the window. The total number of lcTid checking and deletion 
operations across all m lists is bounded by O(p × lmax), resulting in an overall cost of O(m + p × lmax). Therefore, the total time 
complexity for window maintenance per new pane is O(m + p × lmax). Regarding the mining cost, the process begins with a recursive 
call to MineFWUPs_CTsets. The core operation involves generating candidate patterns and computing their CTsets via the CTset­
s_Intersection procedure. This intersection, performed linearly on two CTsets with a maximum size of ctmax, has a time complexity of 
O(ctmax). Let I1 denote the set of items satisfying the minwus threshold. In the worst case, the algorithm explores the entire search space, 
where the total number of candidate patterns is 2|I1|. Consequently, the overall time complexity of the mining phase is O(ctmax × 2|I1|).
For the FWUDS-DWT algorithm, the initialization of the DSWUN-tree involves processing n = w × p transactions in the first 
window, where w denotes the number of panes and p the pane size. For each transaction, all items are sorted and inserted into the tree. 
Thus, the one-time initialization cost of the tree is O(n × lmax × log(lmax) ). For each incoming pane, the total time cost consists of tree 
update and mining phases. The update phase, performed by the Update_DSWUN-tree procedure, includes two operations: inserting p 
new transactions and evicting p obsolete ones. Inserting p new transactions requires p calls to InsertTree, each costing 
O(lmax × log(lmax) ), resulting in a total cost of O(p × lmax × log(lmax) ). The eviction phase also iterates p times, and each iteration 
traverses from a leaf node in the TAILLIST up to the root, incurring O(lmax) time per operation. Therefore, the total tree update time per 
pane is O(p × lmax × log(lmax) ). The mining phase begins with generating the WUNList for the items in I1, which takes O(|I1| × wunlmax), 
where wunlmax represents the maximum WUNList length. Subsequently, the recursive procedure MineFWUPs_WUNList is invoked. 
Fig. 24. Runtime scalability of FWUP mining with varying window and pane sizes on the Kosarak and Susy datasets.
Fig. 25. Memory usage scalability of FWUP mining with varying window and pane sizes on the Kosarak and Susy datasets.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
24 


=== PAGE 25 ===
The FWUDS-DWT algorithm explores a set-enumeration tree to mine FWUPs. In the worst case, the search space is O(2|I1|), corre­
sponding to 2|I1| nodes. At each node, an intersection of two WUNLists is performed to generate a new pattern’s WUNList, with a time 
complexity of O(wunlmax). Consequently, the overall time complexity for the mining process per window is O(wunlmax × 2|I1|).
Based on the theoretical analysis, both proposed algorithms exhibit highly efficient data update performance during window 
sliding. The key reason lies in their pane-based incremental update mechanism, which eliminates the need to reprocess all n trans­
actions in the sliding window, a requirement of the baseline dFWUNL-stream algorithm. Regarding mining time complexity, both 
algorithms theoretically possess exponential cost in the worst-case scenario. This is a common characteristic of pattern mining al­
gorithms. However, in practice, the FWUDS-DWT algorithm demonstrates superior performance. This is attributed to FWUDS-DWT's 
use of the WUNList structure, which features data compression and progressively shortens after each intersection, thereby accelerating 
the pattern generation process compared to the CTset structure. In terms of space complexity, both algorithms must retain the complete 
data of the current window, requiring O(w × p × lmax) memory. However, the DSWUN-tree structure is structurally more complex than 
CTset and also includes a TAILLIST structure requiring O(n) memory. Consequently, the DSWUN-tree demands more memory in 
practice, particularly on sparse datasets. Furthermore, both algorithms employ a depth-first search strategy for FWUP mining. The 
corresponding space complexity for this phase is O(ctmax × |I1|2) for FWUDS-CT and O(wunlmax × |I1|2) for FWUDS-DWT. As a result, on 
large and dense datasets, where items appear in numerous transactions, the FWUDS-CT algorithm tends to consume significantly more 
memory during mining.
Thus, the FWUDS-DWT algorithm sacrifices additional memory in exchange for its compressed DSWUN-tree structure and concise 
WUNLists, enabling faster mining performance. In contrast, the FWUDS-CT algorithm emphasizes an extremely lightweight and simple 
CTset structure but incurs a higher computational cost due to longer CTsets. This trade-off directly determines their respective 
application scenarios, limitations, and scalability. Specifically, FWUDS-DWT is the optimal choice for systems with abundant memory 
resources and high-frequency mining requirements, as its data compression substantially reduces the cost of WUNList intersections, 
resulting in superior runtime efficiency. Conversely, the FWUDS-CT algorithm is more suitable for applications where the input data is 
predominantly sparse, benefiting from its compact structure and minimal memory footprint. In terms of limitations and scalability, the 
bottlenecks of the two algorithms differ fundamentally. For FWUDS-DWT, the core limitation is memory. The requirement to maintain 
the DSWUN-tree structure for the entire current window causes memory to grow, limiting scalability for very large windows on sparse 
datasets. Meanwhile, the limitation of FWUDS-CT lies in processing time, as its mining performance degrades substantially when ctmax 
increases or when the minwus threshold is set too low on dense datasets.
Furthermore, the proposed methods exhibit several additional limitations related to scalability and real-world edge cases. First, 
under extremely high-velocity data streams, the update phase remains highly efficient and capable of real-time operation. However, 
the mining phase is inherently time-consuming. When the data ingestion rate becomes excessively high, the system may face a sit­
uation where updates occur in real time, but mining cannot keep pace. Consequently, the generated patterns may lag behind the most 
recent data, reducing the system’s responsiveness to rapid changes. This challenge with high-dimensionality is not unique to pattern 
mining but is a well-known problem across the broader field of data mining. Second, for high-dimensional data, characterized by an 
extremely large number of unique items, the FWUDS-CT algorithm is directly affected, as it must maintain CTsets for all items. As the 
number of dimensions increases, this results in considerable resource overhead for both storage and updates, thereby limiting its 
scalability in such environments. Third, the current framework does not incorporate an explicit mechanism for handling noisy data. In 
real-world data streams (e.g., those affected by sensor errors or transmission noise), this limitation may lead to spurious patterns or 
distort weighted utility calculations. While robust noise-filtering or noise-tolerant mining techniques were beyond the scope of this 
study, we acknowledge this as an important limitation and identify it as a promising avenue for future research. Finally, another edge 
case arises from rapidly fluctuating weighted utility. The DSWUN-tree achieves high compression by ordering items according to their 
wus-order. However, frequent or abrupt changes in these weights can disrupt this ordering. As a result, the updated DSWUN-tree may 
exhibit lower compression efficiency, leading to an increase in both tree size and WUNList length, thereby degrading overall 
performance.
8. Conclusion
This paper introduces the problem of mining FWUPs from dynamic quantitative data streams using a sliding window model, where 
item weights can be adjusted. We propose two algorithms, FWUDS-CT and FWUDS-DWT, specifically designed to manage the dynamic 
changes in item weights and the continual influx of new data efficiently. Both algorithms employ novel data structures that facilitate 
the removal of outdated data panes, the integration of new panes, and the re-utilization of the existing panes within the sliding 
window, enabling FWUP mining through a single scan of the data. The FWUDS-CT algorithm employs a Circular Tidset data structure, 
an enhanced version of the tidset structure, that enables the rotation of transaction identifier values to avoid large numbers processing 
when data streams become very large. The FWUDS-DWT algorithm compresses data into a tree-based structure called DSWUN-tree, 
which enables quick data updates and generates a WUNList for patterns, thus optimizing the mining process. We have performed a 
series of experiments to assess these two algorithms across various datasets. The results indicate that the FWUDS-DWT algorithm 
significantly outperforms other algorithms in terms of runtime and scalability, though this efficiency comes at the cost of a bit higher 
memory consumption. Moving forward, we plan to extend our research to include mining frequent weighted utility closed patterns and 
top-k FWUPs in data streams. Additionally, we aim to explore the use of parallel programming architectures to further improve the 
performance of the algorithms and scalability for processing large-scale data. Another critical research direction involves adapting the 
proposed algorithms to real-time environments with fluctuating data inflow rates. While the current pane-based sliding window model 
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
25 


=== PAGE 26 ===
operates effectively under stable streams, we will investigate adaptive mechanisms to handle irregular or bursty data inflows. This will 
involve exploring solutions such as dynamically adjusting pane sizes or integrating load-shedding strategies to maintain real-time 
performance under varying stream conditions.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Nguyen Le: Writing – original draft. Ham Nguyen: Conceptualization, Writing – review & editing. Minh Nguyen: Data curation. 
Huong Bui: Writing – review & editing, Visualization. Bay Vo: Writing – review & editing. Unil Yun: Writing – review & editing.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
The data that has been used is confidential.
References
[1] R. Agrawal, T. Imieli´nski, A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases, in: Presented at the ACM sigmod record, ACM, 1993, 
pp. 207–216.
[2] P. Fournier-Viger, J. Chun-Wei Lin, T. Truong-Chi, R. Nkambou, A survey of high utility itemset mining, in High-Utility Pattern Mining, vol. 51, P. Fournier- 
Viger, J.C.-W. Lin, R. Nkambou, B. Vo, V.S. Tseng, Eds., in Studies in Big Data, vol. 51. , Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2019, pp. 1–45. doi: 10.1007/ 
978-3-030-04921-8_1.
[3] S. Kim, et al., Efficient approach for mining high-utility patterns on incremental databases with dynamic profits, Knowl.-Based Syst. 282 (2023) 111060, https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2023.111060.
[4] C. Lee, et al., Efficient approach of sliding window-based high average-utility pattern mining with list structures, Knowl.-Based Syst. 256 (2022) 109702, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2022.109702.
[5] H. Kim, D.-W. Choi, Recency-based sequential pattern mining in multiple event sequences, Data Min. Knowl. Disc. 35 (1) (2021) 127–157, https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/s10618-020-00715-7.
[6] N.D. Ham, V.D. Bay, N.T.H. Minh, T.-P. Hong, MBiS: an efficient method for mining frequent weighted utility itemsets from quantitative databases, J. Comput. 
Sci. Cybern. 31 (1) (2015) 17–30.
[7] H. Bui, B. Vo, H. Nguyen, WUN-miner: a new method for mining frequent weighted utility itemsets, Presented at the 2016 IEEE International Conference on 
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC), IEEE, 2016, pp. 001365–001370.
[8] H. Nguyen, N. Le, H. Bui, T. Le, A new approach for efficiently mining frequent weighted utility patterns, Appl. Intell. 53 (1) (2023) 121–140, https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/s10489-022-03580-7.
[9] H. Nguyen, N. Le, H. Bui, T. Le, Mining frequent weighted utility patterns with dynamic weighted items from quantitative databases, Appl. Intell. 53 (16) (2023) 
19629–19646, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10489-023-04554-z.
[10] M. Han, M. Li, Z. Chen, H. Wu, X. Zhang, High utility pattern mining algorithm over data streams using ext-list, Appl. Intell. 53 (22) (2023) 27072–27095, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10489-023-04925-6.
[11] M. Li, M. Han, Z. Chen, H. Wu, X. Zhang, FCHM-stream: fast closed high utility itemsets mining over data streams, Knowl. Inf. Syst. 65 (6) (2023) 2509–2539, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10115-023-01831-8.
[12] U. Yun, G. Lee, E. Yoon, Efficient high utility pattern mining for establishing manufacturing plans with sliding window control, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 64 (9) 
(2017) 7239–7249, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2017.2682782.
[13] U. Yun, G. Lee, E. Yoon, Advanced approach of sliding window based erasable pattern mining with list structure of industrial fields, Inf. Sci. 494 (2019) 37–59, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2019.04.050.
[14] Y. Liu, W. Liao, A. Choudhary, A two-phase algorithm for fast discovery of high utility itemsets, in: Presented at the Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining, Springer, 2005, pp. 689–695.
[15] V.S. Tseng, C.-W. Wu, B.-E. Shie, P.S. Yu, UP-Growth: an efficient algorithm for high utility itemset mining, in: Presented at the Proceedings of the 16th ACM 
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2010, pp. 253–262.
[16] V.S. Tseng, B.-E. Shie, C.-W. Wu, S.Y. Philip, Efficient algorithms for mining high utility itemsets from transactional databases, IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 25 
(8) (2012) 1772–1786.
[17] M. Liu, J. Qu, Mining high utility itemsets without candidate generation, in: Presented at the Proceedings of the 21st ACM International Conference on 
Information and Knowledge Management, 2012, pp. 55–64.
[18] P. Fournier-Viger, C.-W. Wu, S. Zida, V.S. Tseng, FHM: Faster high-utility itemset mining using estimated utility co-occurrence pruning, in Foundations of 
Intelligent Systems, vol. 8502, T. Andreasen, H. Christiansen, J.-C. Cubero, Z.W. Ra´s, Eds., in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 8502. , Cham: Springer 
International Publishing, 2014, pp. 83–92. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-08326-1_9.
[19] S. Zida, P. Fournier-Viger, J.-C.-W. Lin, C.-W. Wu, V.S. Tseng, EFIM: a fast and memory efficient algorithm for high-utility itemset mining, Knowl. Inf. Syst. 51 
(2) (2017) 595–625.
[20] S. Krishnamoorthy, HMiner: efficiently mining high utility itemsets, Expert Syst. Appl. 90 (2017) 168–183.
[21] J.-F. Qu, M. Liu, P. Fournier-Viger, Efficient algorithms for high utility itemset mining without candidate generation, in High-Utility Pattern Mining, vol. 51, P. 
Fournier-Viger, J.C.-W. Lin, R. Nkambou, B. Vo, V.S. Tseng, Eds., in Studies in Big Data, vol. 51. , Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2019, pp. 131–160. 
doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-04921-8_5.
[22] Y. Yan, X. Niu, Z. Zhang, P. Fournier-Viger, L. Ye, F. Min, Efficient high utility itemset mining without the join operation, Inf. Sci. 681 (2024) 121218, https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2024.121218.
[23] T. Truong-Chi, P. Fournier-Viger, A survey of high utility sequential pattern mining, in High-Utility Pattern Mining, vol. 51, P. Fournier-Viger, J.C.-W. Lin, R. 
Nkambou, B. Vo, V.S. Tseng, Eds., in Studies in Big Data, vol. 51. , Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2019, pp. 97–129. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-04921- 
8_4.
[24] X. Liu, G. Chen, W. Zuo, Effective algorithms to mine skyline frequent-utility itemsets, Eng. Appl. Artif. Intel. 116 (2022) 105355, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
engappai.2022.105355.
[25] M.S. Khan, M. Muyeba, F. Coenen, A weighted utility framework for mining association rules, in: Presented at the 2008 Second UKSIM European Symposium on 
Computer Modeling and simulation, IEEE, 2008, pp. 87–92.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
26 


=== PAGE 27 ===
[26] B. Vo, B. Le, J.J. Jung, A tree-based approach for mining frequent weighted utility itemsets, in: Presented at the International Conference on Computational 
Collective Intelligence, Springer, 2012, pp. 114–123.
[27] T. Tran, B. Vo, T.T.N. Le, N.T. Nguyen, Text clustering using frequent weighted utility itemsets, Cybern. Syst. 48 (3) (2017) 193–209.
[28] H. Nguyen, T. Le, M. Nguyen, P. Fournier-Viger, V.S. Tseng, B. Vo, Mining frequent weighted utility itemsets in hierarchical quantitative databases, Knowl.- 
Based Syst. 237 (2022) 107709.
[29] Z. Deng, Z. Wang, J. Jiang, A new algorithm for fast mining frequent itemsets using N-lists, Science China Inf. Sci. 55 (9) (2012) 2008–2030.
[30] D. Trabold, T. Horv´ath, Mining strongly closed itemsets from data streams, in Discovery Science, vol. 10558, A. Yamamoto, T. Kida, T. Uno, T. Kuboyama, Eds., 
in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10558. , Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2017, pp. 251–266. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-67786-6_18.
[31] M. Zihayat, Y. Chen, A. An, Memory-adaptive high utility sequential pattern mining over data streams, Mach. Learn. 106 (6) (2017) 799–836, https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/s10994-016-5617-1.
[32] Y. Baek, et al., Erasable pattern mining based on tree structures with damped window over data streams, Eng. Appl. Artif. Intel. 94 (2020) 103735, https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.engappai.2020.103735.
[33] H. Nam, U. Yun, E. Yoon, J.-C.-W. Lin, Efficient approach of recent high utility stream pattern mining with indexed list structure and pruning strategy 
considering arrival times of transactions, Inf. Sci. 529 (2020) 1–27.
[34] H.-F. Li, S.-Y. Lee, Mining frequent itemsets over data streams using efficient window sliding techniques, Expert Syst. Appl. 36 (2) (2009) 1466–1477, https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2007.11.061.
[35] T. Calders, N. Dexters, J.J.M. Gillis, B. Goethals, Mining frequent itemsets in a stream, Inf. Syst. 39 (2014) 233–255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2012.01.005.
[36] W. Xiao, J. Hu, SWEclat: a frequent itemset mining algorithm over streaming data using Spark Streaming, J. Supercomput. 76 (10) (2020) 7619–7634, https:// 
doi.org/10.1007/s11227-020-03190-5.
[37] M. Han, H. Cheng, N. Zhang, X. Li, L. Wang, An efficient algorithm for mining closed high utility itemsets over data streams with one dataset scan, Knowl. Inf. 
Syst. 65 (1) (2023) 207–240, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10115-022-01763-9.
[38] M.J. Zaki, Scalable algorithms for association mining, IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 12 (3) (2000) 372–390.
N. Le et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Information Sciences 748 (2026) 123488 
27 

